{\rtf1\ansi\deff0
\margl1800\margr1800\margb1440\margt1440\deflang1033\lndscpsxn
{\colortbl;
\red250\green138\blue59;
\red128\green128\blue128;
\red216\green34\blue146;
}
{\fonttbl;
{\f0 Arial}
}
{\b\fs48 AWS ReInforce Recap\b0}
{\pard  \line \par}
{\b\cf1 Shilpi Bhattacharjee:\b0}
{ }
{\cf2 [00:00:00]}
{ Hey, Hey, Ashish, how are you? }
{\pard  \line \par}
{\b\cf3 Ashish Rajan:\b0}
{ Good. }
{\pard  \line \par}
{\b\cf1 Shilpi Bhattacharjee:\b0}
{ I'm gonna pretend that, you know, like we, we aren't in the sort of in the same space. It's as I was saying, this is yours is like the lounge room edition and mine is the window window SI }
{\pard  \line \par}
{\b\cf3 Ashish Rajan:\b0}
{ edition at the moment, like coming on each other to make sure that people get the most of it.}
{\pard  \line \par}
{Thank you for having me sch and thank you for hosting the AWS three enforce. Why, why to recap and highlight as. I think you have a lot of, lot of things to talk about. I have a lot of things to talk about, so let's get into it as }
{\pard  \line \par}
{\b\cf1 Shilpi Bhattacharjee:\b0}
{ well. Definitely. So AWS reinforced, I just thought, you know, a good way to start.}
{\pard  \line \par}
{This would be just to set the scene in terms of what is AWS reinforc. So it's been around since 2019 and I think you actually attended the first one is that right in person, }
{\pard  \line \par}
{\b\cf3 Ashish Rajan:\b0}
{ I did it 2019. That was still fresh memories of all the thousands of people who turned in and we had to wait for hours and lines, but yeah, definitely.}
{\pard  \line \par}
{It was a great. }
{\pard  \line \par}
{\b\cf1 Shilpi Bhattacharjee:\b0}
{ Amazing. And from your perspective, like obviously you attended the first one in 2019, and now we're in 2022 and you've attended, I think the }
{\cf2 [00:01:00]}
{ only two in person, AWS reinforced events that have happened. Cause for perspective, 2020 was canceled, unfortunately because of the pandemic and 2021.}
{\pard  \line \par}
{Was virtually hosted. So this was actually the second in person event. How did they both compare to you? Because you've actually attended both of them in person. Were they different? Exactly the same, obviously the same amazing people. I think that's what makes these conferences amazing is actually getting to meet a lot of the practitioners and have those conversations.}
{\pard  \line \par}
{But what was different for you for this one? }
{\pard  \line \par}
{\b\cf3 Ashish Rajan:\b0}
{ There were definitely a lot fewer people and I think we touched on this in the Twitter space as well. The conversation was more. We definitely felt there was a lot more, I guess, because there was a lot of leadership change as well from 2019. Steve Schmidt who used to be a CSO for AWS is now the CSO for Amazon.}
{\pard  \line \par}
{Like it's a parent company. There's a new CSO for AWS, which is CJ. Moses both did a great job for explaining security, how they do on Amazon and what their thing is, and the team would be moving forward. }
{\cf2 [00:02:00]}
{ So I, I definitely felt conversations, more intimate. I got to talk to a lot of people. We get to meet a lot of people from the podcast as well.}
{\pard  \line \par}
{I'm really super grateful that they came in, said hello as well. So yeah, that was pretty awesome. I'd probably say more intimate is probably the highlight I in order the Mo thing. And I'm sure we're gonna go into the keynotes and everything else as well as it kind of go. }
{\pard  \line \par}
{\b\cf1 Shilpi Bhattacharjee:\b0}
{ Definitely. Yes. And I think that's what everyone has been saying that though it was.}
{\pard  \line \par}
{you know, a few people it was really intimate and everyone actually got the opportunity to catch up and having some really like deep, meaningful conversation. So going into, I guess the key note for me, really some of the biggest takeaways, I think from the beginning was Steven, Smith's kind of talking about this whole concept of security being baked and from the beginning, Not something that is like an afterthought.}
{\pard  \line \par}
{And I know there's over the industry. There is a lot of conversation about, you know, actually having security from the beginning, built into the cloud. The whole conversation about infrastructure is called develop of security, all of these things that was really coming through. They did make mention of the security guardian program, which I don't think }
{\cf2 [00:03:00]}
{ is a new concept.}
{\pard  \line \par}
{I know they've mentioned it a few years ago as well. And these are people who are not. Reporting into the security team, but into the software development engineers. Is that something that you are hearing across as well? }
{\pard  \line \par}
{\b\cf3 Ashish Rajan:\b0}
{ Yeah. So I guess for context, maybe just quickly setting the scene. Cause I don't know how many people know about what AWS reforce is as well.}
{\pard  \line \par}
{So AWS reforce is the annual cloud security conference from. And it's primarily attended by people who are cloud security, engineers, cloud security, I guess, enthusiasts who are trying to get into cloud security, cloud security, architects, cloud security, decision makers, GRC people as well. So a lot of people who are from the cyber security space and work actively in cloud, or want to work actively in cloud are the kind of people login and maybe tune into Aw, force virtual last year.}
{\pard  \line \par}
{And this year in person. It is a YouTube channel available as well. So you can definitely go check that out. We can leave the link for that in the show notes. Now, coming back to your question about the security champions program or as they call it security guardian, }
{\cf2 [00:04:00]}
{ if Schmidt did talk about it last year, but it was like a really, I say less than five minute mention in and that too, right towards the end of his keynote.}
{\pard  \line \par}
{But this year within the first 10 minutes, it was already onto, I think by the way, on the side note, I did wanna call. Steve should more, Steve, Schmid more a ADHD. It's not a disability leadership, which I thought was pretty awesome that he was using his platform to call out the I guess send the message across.}
{\pard  \line \par}
{And I thought was pretty awesome. So within the first five minutes or 10 minutes of the conversation of keynote, he basically announced the security guardians program and how security champions program is quite crucial to enable developers to talk about security quite early. And not to be an afterthought.}
{\pard  \line \par}
{And later on in the keynote, I also wanted to give a shouter to Lena. She's a CISO for Mongo GB. I think her name name is Lena smart. She did a great job. Also I loved the humor she put in being a Scottish lady. She did a amazing job of putting the score a bit of humor into the conversation as well.}
{\pard  \line \par}
{\cf2 [00:05:00]}
{ And she spoke about the security campus program. They were running in Mongo GB for the past couple of years. It definitely seemed like there was a team for. Which makes me feel a bit funny because Jeff set was something that we used to talk about quite a bit for security champions program. And now suddenly cloud security, which in a lot of ways has been there for a little over 10 years, but it's still quite new compared to rest of the application security space.}
{\pard  \line \par}
{And it's also interesting to see, and this could be a prediction. It would be interesting to see. Much longer before the cloud security and the application security kind of converge into product security, cuz as a CSO in the previous companies that I've worked for, we have had product security teams, not cloud security teams or application security teams, two separate things.}
{\pard  \line \par}
{They used to be in the beginning, but now we definitely have a lot more product security conversation where AppSec people and the cloud security people sit together have conversations, but obviously different stages for different organizations where there, there is a space. Them }
{\cf2 [00:06:00]}
{ individually, but yeah, it was really interesting to see as a team that there is a lot more conversation about bringing security to the left for cloud security as well.}
{\pard  \line \par}
{And not for, not just for application security. That's }
{\pard  \line \par}
{\b\cf1 Shilpi Bhattacharjee:\b0}
{ very right. And I think talking to a lot of people, it sounds like a lot of people are seeing this as a natural progression or a natural evolution of where things are going. Obviously, initially, a lot of people, you know, migrated to cloud, it happened really quickly.}
{\pard  \line \par}
{It was, you know, good days. And then it's like, okay, we need to secure this. And now rather than an afterthought, I think a lot of people are thinking about again, how about we just start. Good from the beginning. So people asking it as a natural evolution, as, but as you correctly said, you know, a lot of people will be at various points of this journey.}
{\pard  \line \par}
{I know a lot of companies might not be, you know, developing their own code as well. I think another thing, and I know you, this is probably pretty close to your heart because I know you've started your career in. I there was a lot of conversation around I am and least privilege. I know. Steven spit, let's say overtly permissive environments guarantees you headaches, which I think everyone will }
{\cf2 [00:07:00]}
{ agree with.}
{\pard  \line \par}
{So that's what he went into. You know, there was a lot of conversation around that as well. And it's all about, again, taking that security into your C, C D pipeline into your SDLC. What were your thoughts in regards to that? Is that something that you think is still relevant? Does it give you headaches?}
{\pard  \line \par}
{What are your thoughts around that? }
{\pard  \line \par}
{\b\cf3 Ashish Rajan:\b0}
{ I definitely feel. It definitely gives you headaches. I'll agree with what Steve said on the keynote. I also believe that I am. Oh, because it's been known for, for some time that identity is the new parameter for cloud in general. And as people used to think, oh, my network or my endpoint is the one, which should be more, the more focused.}
{\pard  \line \par}
{But we, we definitely have, let let's just say. A focus, which is quite determined into the world of, Hey, let's re reha the conversation for if you kind of take a step back and I'm, I'm kind of all over the place, but I'm, I know it'll make sense as I'm kind of talking }
{\cf2 [00:08:00]}
{ about it. If you look at the most.}
{\pard  \line \par}
{Security incident root causes are lead credentials and lead credentials primarily are linked with identity. Identity is also linked to S SRF, which is probably one another very popular non vulnerable team in AWS. If you're using the version, one of their CLI I, I M D S and the fact that identity with, if you say, for example, if you did not have an identity in Amazon, you can't do.}
{\pard  \line \par}
{But if you have an identity, depending on what that identity can do, which is the overly permissive roles or how much access that that account has. So your admin privileges versus your lease privilege. The second one being if the credentials are just not being used properly. So those are some of the most popular reasons.}
{\pard  \line \par}
{We did a couple of polls in different community groups. And one of the most spoken about thing was lead credential. So identity is probably the only pro if I've already just really boil this down, maybe the reason for the second team to }
{\cf2 [00:09:00]}
{ be identity across the board was the fact that identity probably is still the most important thing you can do as a protection layer for securing your AWS account, or maybe even any cloud account, to be honest.}
{\pard  \line \par}
{So you can prevent an, a security incident to happen in your. So I that's very true. }
{\pard  \line \par}
{\b\cf1 Shilpi Bhattacharjee:\b0}
{ No, and I think it sounds like, you know, AWS is on the same page as well, even though it's something that we've probably been talking about since the inception of, you know, cloud. I think it is still very relevant. I did wanna take a moment just to take a pause and just say hello to everyone who's watching us live.}
{\pard  \line \par}
{If any of you have been to re. And you had some thoughts and comments feel free to, you know, drop them into comments. We'll like to even, you know, sort of get into those conversations. If you have any questions for us, anything about reinforce that we could share from our experience and, you know, Ashish is a veteran that he's attended the first one happy to so feel free to, you know, drop them along and, you know, we'll include them in the conversation as well.}
{\pard  \line \par}
{I think there was a lot of conversation around the fact that even as the complexity of cloud is }
{\cf2 [00:10:00]}
{ increasing with the identity side of things, a lot of organizations are looking for an easy, easy way to digest all that information and have some clear sort of visibility into their identity permissions as well.}
{\pard  \line \par}
{So that's really talking back into what you were saying that they really do need, you know, visibility into those things as well. I think the other thing again is not something new that we haven't spoken about, but it's all about data was the other thing that came out people are asking and I think this was probably, you know, we can I'm gonna say the L word, which is log four J so it's probably come from that, that, you know you know, people are suddenly, once something like that comes out, everyone's got, okay, what is my sense of data?}
{\pard  \line \par}
{How do I find it? How do I protect it? What have I. Into that. And that was something that, you know they were making reference during the keynote quite correctly, I, in my opinion, they said, you know, every data, every store data should be intentionally controlled and encrypted. What are your thoughts on that?}
{\pard  \line \par}
{Like I know you said I am definitely there on the money there. That that is something that is still very important. You know, }
{\cf2 [00:11:00]}
{ talking about security gardens and having security Beton from the beginning, third theme, being data, knowing where my data. }
{\pard  \line \par}
{\b\cf3 Ashish Rajan:\b0}
{ Yeah, I think it probably links to the confidential computing conversations that most of the cloud service providers having have been having as well.}
{\pard  \line \par}
{It was, I think in 2021 Steve Schmid announced the lease of AWS MI compute. Which was their entry into the confidential computing space. Azure has been doing it. Intel has been talking about it like, so there are quite a few players in the market already. And the whole reason for this was data.}
{\pard  \line \par}
{Basically people wanted to know a what kind of data, because even now we don't have a proper DLP solution for the cloud. There is no DLP you can do for cloud effectively. You can do DLP for your, all your other service. But effective DLP in a cloud context is very rare. You can use services like AWS Macy, which works really well.}
{\pard  \line \par}
{I mean, I guess, okay. I won't say really well. It works well for English context of }
{\cf2 [00:12:00]}
{ languages, sorry, English sensitive data stored in your S3 bucket. Does not work for non-English. At least the last time I checked, it does not work for non English, non-English PII or Phi public information or public health information.}
{\pard  \line \par}
{If it's stored in any other language, apart from English, it doesn't really work as effectively and the data, so data is important there. At least you're trying to protect the data. The second one being, if you are a organization that processes a lot of sensitive data, how can you be sure that you are able to make sure that.}
{\pard  \line \par}
{The information of the data, or I guess the people you're talking to say, for example, for whatever reason, I, as an organization decided I wanna talk to Netflix, but I wanna do it securely without Amazon prime, having a look at this. And I, I know I may get a lot of heat from Amazon for this, but if I wanted to do it that way, even though Netflix is primarily running on.}
{\pard  \line \par}
{How would I do that? And one of the suggestions for this was compute confidential computing. }
{\cf2 [00:13:00]}
{ A lot of government organizations use it to talk between different government organizations. A lot of, a lot of banks use it. So there was already a push for data is important. And the other half of data is also data privacy for people who have been watching a lot of ads from apple or Samsung.}
{\pard  \line \par}
{You would've realized they have been talking about privacy for, I guess if you've watched any of the recent ads from Amazon, or, sorry, not from Amazon, any of the recent ads from apple or Samsung. I think Samsung has Evolv. Now, Amazon has been talking about privacy for a long time. So even at a consumer level, it is quite becoming quite important for people to care about their data, GDPR and all the other rules that have existed already.}
{\pard  \line \par}
{They get to continue to strengthen their requirements. So all the cloud service providers have to continue to be more. Proactive in the way they handle data. Obviously it was by calling out the customers have a responsibility here as well. I'm gonna throw the shared responsibility model on the table table as well.}
{\pard  \line \par}
{If, if I have a data that I know is sensitive, I should take the right precautions to }
{\cf2 [00:14:00]}
{ classify it. And how do I store it? Encrypt it, backup recovery, all the things that you need to do from a life cycle manage perspective. I think that those are definitely a team. So. On the money. So far we have the IAM overtly access.}
{\pard  \line \par}
{We have also got the security champions program or security guardian program and the third one being data. So you're on the money so far should be keep going. Yeah. }
{\pard  \line \par}
{\b\cf1 Shilpi Bhattacharjee:\b0}
{ Yes. And it sounds like, you know, I mean, again, I do wanna call out, I don't think it is something new and that the industry isn't talking about when we talk to people on cloud security podcast, often these are the conversations that we are having.}
{\pard  \line \par}
{And it's good to see that everyone's kind of synced in together. And I think it's a good sort of, you know I'm gonna use your word segue into I guess a couple of things that you mentioned, obviously shared responsibility was the next theme that kind of came through. So Something interesting that CJ Moses said is that we win and lose together, which I thought was a really good mindset to have, I think, security, especially.}
{\pard  \line \par}
{I know we did the supply chain security videos as well. And again, I think the theme is that }
{\cf2 [00:15:00]}
{ to be truly successful as a community in security, there's a lot of things we have to do together. The chair responsibility again is one of those things. If it's not well defined, can often. Who takes responsibility for that.}
{\pard  \line \par}
{And does it mean that nobody is taking responsibility for anything? Another interesting thing that he mentioned is that sh security should not be the office of no, but an office of yes, maybe so I thought, oh yes you say no. Yes. But I think yes, but, or yes. Yeah. So I think the concept was more like.}
{\pard  \line \par}
{Find ways to say yes. You know? I think which I definitely agree with as well. I think, and I think you are, you've always talked about security, not being a barrier, but an enabler. So I think, again, not something that's new, but it's something that I guess even in 2022, we have to be sort of Mindful of as well.}
{\pard  \line \par}
{I know you mentioned a Amazon Macy as well, so there were a few updates and I know we were gonna go into the updates a bit later on, so we might go keep going with the themes. And then we might jump into like, you know, some of the updates, not new products, but new }
{\cf2 [00:16:00]}
{ updates to existing services that have come through and we'll, we'll get your thoughts in regards to that as well.}
{\pard  \line \par}
{Again, if anyone's there listening and, you know just to ask any questions if you do Xena, thanks for the recap. Perfect. Yeah, I think that's what we wanted to do. Sort of, you know, bring it to anyone who didn't have the opportunity to attend. And yeah, if you're attending next year and hopefully we will be as well, I would love to see you in person.}
{\pard  \line \par}
{So going on to, I think we've had the themes come through. They did do, I guess again, I'm gonna mention log four J and I kind of feel like it's, it's one of those really overused things, but they did share their lessons from log four J and again, I don't think any of these will be something that is groundbreaking, that we are not aware of, but I'll be eager to hear if, you know, you feel they've missed anything or something they, that wasn't talked about.}
{\pard  \line \par}
{So limit outbound, internet, internet access of any kind. So. You know seems sensible keeping all 30 party products updated to their late latest version and knowing what the impact of the latest version is. Defense in depth was called out as something being really key. So }
{\cf2 [00:17:00]}
{ having left ability to hot patch having a strong hygiene program and obviously again, least privilege having a comprehensive inventory of software and how it is being used.}
{\pard  \line \par}
{And they did call lots and lots and lots of logging. . }
{\pard  \line \par}
{\b\cf3 Ashish Rajan:\b0}
{ Did he say, love logging. }
{\pard  \line \par}
{\b\cf1 Shilpi Bhattacharjee:\b0}
{ There's this logging, logging. I think I might have missed one logging in this so those were the takeaways from them. And I know you know, previously in cloud security news, we've covered as well. Each of the cloud service providers actually has you know, done recap and highlights and how to best remediate for log for Jane will probably put them in the show notes as well.}
{\pard  \line \par}
{Yeah. From your perspective, any lessons that you think they didn't cover, they should have covered. }
{\pard  \line \par}
{\b\cf3 Ashish Rajan:\b0}
{ I think I'll probably start by saying this. Most of the conversations we had about the keynote on the, on the ground, a lot of people felt that the keynote was overall quite underwhelming and not, not saying that lock four J is not important, but the reason being, because it's almost like, yes, it's important called out lock four, J they even called out ransomware as well.}
{\pard  \line \par}
{So it's so important to call }
{\cf2 [00:18:00]}
{ them out. And maybe we can throw some examples of what a ran ransomware in a cloud looks like. It was also interesting to kind of hear. That lock four J and digital supply chain in, I guess, to what you said earlier in our minds, it goes hand in hand because lock four J would technically, would not happen if you don't have a third party library.}
{\pard  \line \par}
{Like if you don't use Java, you would probably not even care about lock four J or the Java library that was affected by it. But if you did, you probably would've realized that. The initiative that the executive order from president Biden around having a zero cross architecture, which, and then also calling out , which is a software bill of material.}
{\pard  \line \par}
{Like those are things which are definitely gonna drive a lot of the log 4k or even a future log 4k, whatever that would look like. Into an existence where, oh, we need to be more careful about what kind of libraries are we inheriting and what kind of vulnerables you may have having some kind of an asset inventory of the software that you're running, not just off the servers, but also for the }
{\cf2 [00:19:00]}
{ software.}
{\pard  \line \par}
{What kind of libraries? I think someone explains this to me the best way. They said like for people who do not understand the concept of open source libraries and softwares and all that, imagine this way that you have a product, let's just say Netflix as an example, probably the most popular. They have a streaming service.}
{\pard  \line \par}
{The streaming service is their product is also their best performing dish. If they, if Netflix for the chef, their favorite dish is streaming service. and what ingredients are required to build the best dish is what we would describe as softwares. Now, each ingredient could also have a subcategory of labels.}
{\pard  \line \par}
{Hey, this is from, I don't know, some important spice company. I'm I'm gonna use a, another spice from our company, but essentially the idea is the ingredients are the libraries, which potentially open you up to lock four J so you need to be aware of what ingredients are used or AKA, what libraries open source are.}
{\pard  \line \par}
{Are being used or even third party suppliers that you have in your log for J or not log for J in your }
{\cf2 [00:20:00]}
{ creation of the software or the recipe. So that probably was missing. And I'll, I just wanted to add the SPO pieces in there as well. }
{\pard  \line \par}
{\b\cf1 Shilpi Bhattacharjee:\b0}
{ Yeah. And that's a very good call out because I think, and I always love a food analogy for anyone who knows I'm a big foodie.}
{\pard  \line \par}
{But also as you say, it is like, it's like knowing what your recipe is and if any of your ingredients have been, you know, called back because you know, it, it was not safe to consume you kind of, if you think about it that way, it makes sense. You wanna make sure that all your ingredients are safe to use, and if they have been recalled.}
{\pard  \line \par}
{You wanna make sure that, you know, you've kind of given them back and things. So I think if we run with that, so }
{\pard  \line \par}
{\b\cf3 Ashish Rajan:\b0}
{ basically FBI or whatever, the food authority has approved, that it is safe for consumption as well, which is kind of what we are trying to E Anchorage as well. Yeah. }
{\pard  \line \par}
{\b\cf1 Shilpi Bhattacharjee:\b0}
{ Yeah. I love that analogy. I think I'm gonna run, run with that one.}
{\pard  \line \par}
{I think. One other thing about AWS reinforce that a lot of people know, obviously it's about the talks. It's about meeting your peer, you know, practitioners. And there are cloud practitioners from, you know, level 100 to level 400 at these conferences. So you have all breadth of conversations. The other really key thing which people obviously are, you know, gearing for }
{\cf2 [00:21:00]}
{ is what are gonna be announcements.}
{\pard  \line \par}
{It's like the apple keynote, you know, what is gonna be the new feature. And I, I would say Amazon's probably a little bit like apple these days where they're not doing. Big upgrades, but it's like little upgrades. Your camera goes up by two pixels and things like that. And I wanted to like, kind of run past you and get your thoughts in terms of the updates that have been announced.}
{\pard  \line \par}
{And what does it actually mean for people? I know we had the Twitter spaces just before and we got some really good commentary in terms of, you know, what the community was. Feeling in regards to these updates, but probably in an order of priority. So we've had Amazon guard duty for a long time, and now there's gonna be mal protection available for the EBS volumes and that malware protection is gonna be able to integrate into security hub.}
{\pard  \line \par}
{Now guard duty for anyone who's not familiar is AWS's trend detection service. So which monitors your AWS accounts and workloads What are your thoughts in regards to that? Like I know you know, overall the feedback has been positive, but coming from tradit spaces }
{\cf2 [00:22:00]}
{ and also, you know, your, your thoughts as a CSO as well.}
{\pard  \line \par}
{What, what are your thoughts? So }
{\pard  \line \par}
{\b\cf3 Ashish Rajan:\b0}
{ I, I guess for people who may have been hearing the term CWPP, which is cloud workload protection platform, the, a lot of people who may be in. Phase where they have recently purchased a CWPP or are looking at purchasing a CWPP they might wanna consider the service. So it may be something which is beneficial from that perspective.}
{\pard  \line \par}
{So I think and I think you mentioned about whole side scan thing as well. It's very, very, I guess very much like the Sitek service where. They don't need an agent to be able to access your EBS volume. They can chill, scan it, and they're able to basically scan, sorry. Yeah. You, you were saying, yeah, }
{\pard  \line \par}
{\b\cf1 Shilpi Bhattacharjee:\b0}
{ no. So, cause I think what, what everyone was saying is that it's not replacing agent based CWPP or EPP solutions, but that are projects that are continuously at one time, but more replacing side scanning agentless products that may be out there again, you know we don't know what the breadth and implications of those may be, but that's kind of like the initial thoughts.}
{\pard  \line \par}
{Yeah. }
{\cf2 [00:23:00]}
{ Around. }
{\pard  \line \par}
{\b\cf3 Ashish Rajan:\b0}
{ Oh, actually. Yeah. So for me, I totally, I think it makes sense because that's where I think for people who would've seen a CSP video that I did for four generations, I think one of the things I call out is using agentless model of CSP. And it's pretty awesome to see that Amazon is also going on the path of doing agentless scanning, which also means that for people who have been hesitant to have like a malware protection, because either it's too expensive or too hard to implement.}
{\pard  \line \par}
{These kind of capabilities are pretty advanced in, in a lot of places. I think we talked we had Andrew Kro on the Twitter space as well. He spoke about earlier. Forensics is like such an advancing and even having this capability to do a site scan or malware protection, all this, we used to speak for people who are advanced in the usage of cloud, but having that capability also means you're democratizing the cloud security space for a lot of people that even if you don't are, maybe not that as advanced as a lot of people, you're still able to use the capability.}
{\pard  \line \par}
{From AWS, which allows you to look at malware }
{\cf2 [00:24:00]}
{ protection or malware detection using guard duty and kind of have that as a way for enhancing security capabilities in your cloud environment. So I think overall it was quite positive, but the thing being there are still gaps probably I'm sure would come out as we kind of go through and using it at the moment.}
{\pard  \line \par}
{It's just an announcement. I haven't used it for, with vengeance, but I would love to hear from people who probably are using it already now or were part of the preview. And we'd love to share what they've found, but I think over, only time will tell because I like everything else that Amazon announces, usually most things are MVP.}
{\pard  \line \par}
{So it'll be interesting to see if it's truly worth replacing your CWPP with Amazon guard duty. So yeah, only time will tell. }
{\pard  \line \par}
{\b\cf1 Shilpi Bhattacharjee:\b0}
{ Definitely. And I think one thing that my initial thought when I read like, found out about the update was it sounded very similar to Amazon's inspector service. But I think if you read into it and just so that, you know, I, I thought this clarification was important to me.}
{\pard  \line \par}
{So it might be you know, important for the listeners out there as well that the }
{\cf2 [00:25:00]}
{ inspector is protecting against vulnerabilities at an entry point for attackers. Whereas guard duty malware protection is more. Act protecting against malware and actively running workloads. So that's kind of like a good differentiation if you've, you know, heard that and gone.}
{\pard  \line \par}
{Is it very much like inspector, but yeah, it's not, it's just, yes. }
{\pard  \line \par}
{\b\cf3 Ashish Rajan:\b0}
{ so I was gonna say it's like, so inspector is for your build time when you're building the application and guard duty is real time threat detection to what you said earlier as well. So once you've deployed the application, And you wanna know, Hey, is there a malware that is affecting one of my EC two instances right now, then that's where this, this capability can help.}
{\pard  \line \par}
{But I think they were saying initial capabilities also very much focused on the whole crypto jacking and all that as well. So it'd be because guard duty has always been able to pick up on crypto jacking. So I wonder how advanced they have gone and if they were to have any threat feed, cause a lot of the CWPP environment focuses a lot on having the latest feed for what's the potential malware or virus.}
{\pard  \line \par}
{And keeping an }
{\cf2 [00:26:00]}
{ eye off that on your server. And also how often would this be running? Would this be running every minute or every eight hours or that there's that, I mean, there's a lot of unanswered questions, so I think only time would, but I think it's a good point to call out that it's a, it how different it is from inspector.}
{\pard  \line \par}
{So in case people would get confused now, thank you for sharing that. No, }
{\pard  \line \par}
{\b\cf1 Shilpi Bhattacharjee:\b0}
{ definitely. And it sounds like it only scans once guard duty has detected an issue. So it's not doing like a nightly scan of your EC two is in instances like other side scanners. So there is that differentiation that some of the early users have called out.}
{\pard  \line \par}
{So yeah, it'd be interesting in terms of, you know, what, what that kind of means for everyone. I think the next bit that probably was in terms of updates was Amazon detective, which has been there for, for a while now, I think it was announced in the first re reinforce, if you can remember sh when you were there.}
{\pard  \line \par}
{But it is now available for elastic Kubernetes service. So Did you want to sort of go into a little bit about what Amazon detective? I, I love their names though, in the sense, like detective guard }
{\cf2 [00:27:00]}
{ duty inspector, I think they they're creating a, a force there , but in terms of just like, you know, people listening in, what is Amazon detective and having it available for eeks, what does that actually mean for people?}
{\pard  \line \par}
{\b\cf3 Ashish Rajan:\b0}
{ Oh, yeah, sure. So it basically is a in security investigation service from Amazon and the, the whole point of it is you're able to analyze, investigate, identify the root cause of potential security issues. At least that's how they describe it, because it it's the, the foundation of it is it collects data from AWS resources apparently using quote unquote machine learning.}
{\pard  \line \par}
{So, and you from using services like the guard duty Macy other security services, you're able to kind of. Simplify the process, which helps security teams to easily investigate and quickly find the root cause. Now, obviously it comes from multiple sources, which did not include S before, but now it can look into the EKS audit logs, not, and not just the guard duty findings and stuff as well.}
{\pard  \line \par}
{So I think it definitely is a great addition, especially when you look at the }
{\cf2 [00:28:00]}
{ adoption curve for pubity, for people who have been following CU. I think the last year start of adoption was 70% increase in overall adoption of. I'm more surprised that they start adding this in there as well. One thing to call out something is probably some people may think of this as a replacement for ACE, which is S I E M security incident and events management service.}
{\pard  \line \par}
{It, I won't say it is completely a replacement of it, cuz you can still technically ingest data. You can transform and load into custom scripts as well. So you can do a lot of things, which sounds very seem. But I would not remove, I dunno, completely replace your scene with it, but yeah, I think it's an overall great tool for easy to have visualization and you can do easily, easily investigate a lot of those things that basically you may not have been able to do earlier before.}
{\pard  \line \par}
{So EKS is a great edition, probably one which is missing. Another one I, I wish they had added was some more of the access analyzer pieces. I think, I don't think they }
{\cf2 [00:29:00]}
{ do access, analyze and detection, but if they can do. That would be pretty cool. I've got a few people coming line. Hey, Hey Chris. What's up?}
{\pard  \line \par}
{And another LinkedIn user from Brazil. Hey, I think it's Roberto, but Hey, from Brazil }
{\pard  \line \par}
{\b\cf1 Shilpi Bhattacharjee:\b0}
{ as. Thanks for joining us. And yeah, if any of you have attended reinforced watched any of the talks, if you've got a favorite talk, an update that you loved, hated or wish had happened share it with us because you know, that's exactly why we are having this conversation, just so that, you know, we can all get up to speed in terms of, you know, all the updates that have happened.}
{\pard  \line \par}
{And, you know, in, in regards to Amazon's EKS sorry, Amazon detective the way I think when I was, when it was originally launched, the way I like to explain it to myself was it was a dash of Amazon cloud trail, VPC flow logs, Amazon guard duty, all thrown in together with the dash of, as you said, machine learning some statistical analysis and some graph theory.}
{\pard  \line \par}
{So it hopefully gives you some meaningful answers. So that's the way I kind of would explain }
{\pard  \line \par}
{\b\cf3 Ashish Rajan:\b0}
{ it to. Oh, so I wonder quickly say that the person who was }
{\cf2 [00:30:00]}
{ greeting from Brazil was Eric. Hey, thanks for coming in. Hi, }
{\pard  \line \par}
{\b\cf1 Shilpi Bhattacharjee:\b0}
{ Eric. Thanks for joining. So I know we've spoken about a couple of the updates the big ones, and I know you spoke about Amazon Macy before.}
{\pard  \line \par}
{So Amazon Macy has been around since 2017. And for the longest time, it only really showed you what the location of your data security and direct data privacy was now they've updated it so that it can give you up to 10 examples of your sensitive data found in Amazon. So I know. Previously mentioning that that has kind of goes back into, I guess, the keynote conversation about you know, data and the importance of data and knowing where your sensitive data is.}
{\pard  \line \par}
{Do you see this as a beneficial addition to what they've done or is there still, you know, I know you were saying there's still some gaps in terms of languages, obviously English side of things, but does this kind of give a bit of an improvement in terms of like a step towards the right direction in terms of.}
{\pard  \line \par}
{\b\cf3 Ashish Rajan:\b0}
{ I definitely feel it does, especially because data, as I kind of mentioned the beginning from a data }
{\cf2 [00:31:00]}
{ protection perspective, there is a big gap. Not just, well, I wouldn't really throw Amazon under the bus, but there is some responsibility on us, consumers of the service as well, to be able to understand why do we need to classify data?}
{\pard  \line \par}
{Why do we need to manage data? Whether we even have sensitive data. In the cloud, how are we gonna deal with it? If it's in the cloud, how would we do manage the entire data life cycle? So I think it's definitely a step towards the right direction. I think, but there's still a lot of work to be done, but I think it's any little improvement.}
{\pard  \line \par}
{I'll welcome is what I would say. Yes, definitely. }
{\pard  \line \par}
{\b\cf1 Shilpi Bhattacharjee:\b0}
{ And it sounds like, you know, there are definitely thinking about 'em there were some updates, again, as all these updates you know, we. Put them all to play yet. So it'll be really interesting once people start using them, you know, one of the different things that they find out the other thing was now around AWS conflict.}
{\pard  \line \par}
{So now that supports compliance scores it'll give you, which of your resources are compliant with a set of requirements. And it's in relationship to the }
{\cf2 [00:32:00]}
{ scope of your co performance pack. What does that mean from your perspective when you hear that? }
{\pard  \line \par}
{\b\cf3 Ashish Rajan:\b0}
{ Yeah. So conformance pack has been there with Aw conflict for some time.}
{\pard  \line \par}
{It's essentially a set of rules. Amazon would give you with AWS concept, although I'm not really sure how many people actually use AWS config, because if you turn it on, it's quite expensive. Once a rules start building up, actually, if you have like a global environment, which is where some of the business that I've had use, you're probably better off using, or sending your logs over to a seam solution in most scenarios.}
{\pard  \line \par}
{So if you are someone who's probably using config and have been missing out the, the scoring feature for how do I prioritize. Finding, this is a great addition from that perspective, you're able to prioritize the kind of findings that are being identified by conf. So yeah, definitely. }
{\pard  \line \par}
{\b\cf1 Shilpi Bhattacharjee:\b0}
{ Amazing. And I think prioritization is again, a theme that is sort of going around in the industry, because I think we all have a lot of different flags.}
{\pard  \line \par}
{You know, alert, fatigue is something people talk about a lot as well. So anything we can do to find out what }
{\cf2 [00:33:00]}
{ are top things we should be paying attention to makes makes a lot of sense. So as you said again, something in the right direction, but we'll see how that plays out in regards to, you know, how people are using it as well.}
{\pard  \line \par}
{Something that is getting, I guess, a little bit of, you know, conversation happening in the community is just the stuff around AWS control tower, AWS control tower, you know, came into play a few years ago where people were really looking for that one landing page when you've got multiple, you know, AWS accounts, you know, how do I secure them?}
{\pard  \line \par}
{How do I govern them? How do I set them up? And again, it's a bit controversial. I know everyone's kind of always said that it's probably not where people have wanted to be, but I know in the Twitter spaces, when you were having a chat Tony brought up a really interesting point that yes, it's, maybe it's not where, where, you know, big enterprises would want it to be, or maybe there are some gaps, but for a lot of folks, it's probably headed to a place where there's quite good.}
{\pard  \line \par}
{Which opinion do you agree with? Are you sitting on the fence or this. }
{\pard  \line \par}
{\b\cf3 Ashish Rajan:\b0}
{ I think it's funny because we had a }
{\cf2 [00:34:00]}
{ conversation on the with Cassandra young couple of days ago yesterday, actually. And she spoke about how majority of the things that she found UN control tower were possible in a much better way outside of control tower.}
{\pard  \line \par}
{So I think for people who want a template for it to be done simply straightforward for them, I think it's great for them just to kind of go on the path. But if your organization is capable, has team members who. Maybe write those two rules themselves. There's a lot of rules available and you probably can make more focus rules for your organization.}
{\pard  \line \par}
{Cause control tower is like a template and it's AWS practices security, best practices. So you can definitely use that to implement that straight away if you're a small to medium size business. But if you're saying like a medium to a large scale business or an enterprise which have capability for you to be able to do all of these of these together yourself, you probably don't need a control tower service.}
{\pard  \line \par}
{You probably. Should be able to drive the conversation of how, what you need and how you need it }
{\cf2 [00:35:00]}
{ through the engineering capabilities of your team as well. So I think it's a broad mix, but it depends on the organization you're in I think any improvement, as I said, little improvement. I'll take it as it's a good sign for businesses that may not have the capability right now, but may have it in the future.}
{\pard  \line \par}
{So yeah, it is start security early, which is kind of what you said in the beginning was a team. And this is definitely gonna add on. }
{\pard  \line \par}
{\b\cf1 Shilpi Bhattacharjee:\b0}
{ Yeah, definitely. And I think it also is going back to one of the themes that we were talking about, about democratizing security as well, for those organizations that probably don't have those really robust engineering teams.}
{\pard  \line \par}
{It's just something that's available to them as a template. And you know, every little improvement kind of helps them get one step ahead in the right direction. The next one. And there are a few updates. I'll probably not go through them too much in detail, but just just for a complete viewpoint, I think we've got three more updates that we did wanna talk about.}
{\pard  \line \par}
{So Amazon acquired actually a company called Vic back in June of last year. And one of the things that they have announced is the avail of Wicca in preview. So }
{\cf2 [00:36:00]}
{ what's VICA, it's meant to be an enterprise communication. End to end encrypted. And it allows for, you know, like secure messaging, voice, video, calling, fire, sharing screen sharing, all of those things.}
{\pard  \line \par}
{So kind of like an end to end encrypted zoom. That's what it sounds like to me. I did, I was quite keen, so I did kind of hop onto the website and I'm like, okay, what is this all about? Sounds like they are obviously targeting this towards things like military and the government organizations, you know, obviously where you want your data to be protected.}
{\pard  \line \par}
{I guess we all probably should have our data protected. What are your thoughts? I guess, being a security person or something like Rick, is it something to watch, watch for interesting things coming? Is it gonna compete with zoom? }
{\pard  \line \par}
{\b\cf3 Ashish Rajan:\b0}
{ I, I think there's definitely I guess insight and honestly, I definitely feel we've moved onto a hybrid world.}
{\pard  \line \par}
{I mean, we are running security meet in the hybrid world as well. So there's a lot of room for tools like Wicker to make an impact. And you're right last year, Steve, Schmid just mentioned that they have acquired this company and it should make an impact. This year, it's good to see }
{\cf2 [00:37:00]}
{ it come in preview mode.}
{\pard  \line \par}
{But I would probably say because a lot of organizations have already gone down the path of zoom or Google hangout or whatever Amazon chime. And there's another one for Microsoft teams, I guess. So people are, have already made a decision. I think this would be really beneficial, probably more for military and government agencies, which is same, which is, if you look at the website of, I think you were showing this to me earlier, if you look at the website of VICA, it definitely almost utterly.}
{\pard  \line \par}
{Hints towards the fact that they're trying to focus more on military as well as government agencies for vicar. So I, I definitely feel it would be a hard sell for them to have impact in say the enterprise space in general, just because I think a lot of people have already established certain providers in this space.}
{\pard  \line \par}
{And I don't see why someone would wanna change it, especially as we move towards hybrid world. A lot of people are even trying to go away from online conversations as much as possible. I think it may not have an impact on the enterprise space, but for military }
{\cf2 [00:38:00]}
{ and government agencies, which still rely heavily on our communications are encrypted.}
{\pard  \line \par}
{And some of these, I guess the, the reason why I keep talking about military and government agencies, encryption is important for them. But in a lot of say, prior set of companies, encryption is important, but I don't know how many people are focusing on paying the extra premium. When say your conversations for them to be encrypted.}
{\pard  \line \par}
{Your provider wants you to pay. so, whereas a government agency would be like, oh, why not? I think that should be part of the thing. So yeah, that's probably the impact. That probably is the difference. }
{\pard  \line \par}
{\b\cf1 Shilpi Bhattacharjee:\b0}
{ Definitely. That's very true. And I think it's also gonna be interesting to see how. You know, the companies that we are using the zooms teams and you know, hang Google Hangouts of the world.}
{\pard  \line \par}
{I I'm guessing they will become more and more secure. So they might start putting, you know, versions of encryption there because there are a lot more sensitive conversations that are happening in these space earlier on. It was just probably something that, you know, you did for your private conversations, but now, you know, most organizations are being run on that.}
{\pard  \line \par}
{So that, it'll be interesting to see how they shift towards a }
{\cf2 [00:39:00]}
{ more secure environment as well. So, Something to watch out for. I guess the other one that they have announced in preview again, is the AWS marketplace vendor insights. So it's gonna be a third party software risk assessment process, and it's gonna enable sellers to make security compliance information available through the AWS marketplace.}
{\pard  \line \par}
{So essentially, you know, The vendors will have to check off about 150 security credentials that they were talking about and it'll show the security cert certifications and information on a real time basis. So that to me you know, and I guess I probably haven't been on, on the front where I've, you know, had to, you know, sort of onboard a lot of vendors, but I would imagine as a security leader, that could be really beneficial as long as I guess it's impartial and you're getting to see all the vendors that you want out there.}
{\pard  \line \par}
{Does this sound like something that's gonna save you alone time? }
{\pard  \line \par}
{\b\cf3 Ashish Rajan:\b0}
{ It would definitely save the procurement process as CGM most is called out. It would definitely reduce the time because traditionally a lot of, well, }
{\cf2 [00:40:00]}
{ I don't know if maybe we haven't spoken about this, but I think a lot of the conversations that we were having with vendors was a lot of people migrated towards AWS marketplace over the last couple of years because they realized it's so much more easier to get procurement happen in an enterprise or in a, in a company that's a lot of process.}
{\pard  \line \par}
{Through marketplace, because quote unquote, it comes, comes under your Amazon bill. So you don't have to say go. I don't know if we were to make cloud security, meet, meet up like a big product or whatever. And we wanted to sell it to the biggest enterprise out there. We have to go through the procurement process of getting it added and there's like a whole review process.}
{\pard  \line \par}
{And if you're not in the, if you're not a part of the panel, you can't get in takes six, six months, seven months. But if you are already in the AWS marketplace, It's literally a click. And suddenly now you have cloud security meetup happening around here or cloud security academy as we have the education piece as well.}
{\pard  \line \par}
{You can have that in a matter of a few minutes and it's classified under your AWS bill. Now, the, the reason this is important and I definitely wanted this to be highlighted was because. }
{\cf2 [00:41:00]}
{ The digital supply chain, as you spoke about earlier is comprised with third parties. And what the marketplace is doing is it's opening up your AWS environment to third parties, which are there.}
{\pard  \line \par}
{And you may or may not know that your organization is already using it now using the insight, at least that opens up the door for, I think they said every seven days, you get an update of whether the certification is the security certification of the vendor is still being validated, which is a great initiative because technically.}
{\pard  \line \par}
{The reason why we had the challenge with I guess all these third parts, third party supply chain was also because the scale of it was just too hard for a lot of organizations to manage. And they definitely found it harder to do security reviews of these third parties. So mm-hmm, , I think this is a great move because what this means is now people will be a lot more confident to say, yep.}
{\pard  \line \par}
{Use database marketplace, because you can use insights to make sure the security compliance of the vendors that are there on the marketplace is definitely being checked by Amazon, which can do that at a scale, }
{\cf2 [00:42:00]}
{ which a lot of organizations cannot serve, I think is a great. }
{\pard  \line \par}
{\b\cf1 Shilpi Bhattacharjee:\b0}
{ That's true. It's kind of almost like a benchmarking, like, you know, you're kind of comparing apples with apples, I would say so.}
{\pard  \line \par}
{Yeah. As you }
{\pard  \line \par}
{\b\cf3 Ashish Rajan:\b0}
{ said, and maybe an easier choice as well, if you have to compare two apples and one is like a high grade apple, which has all the sort security certifications and the other one doesn't have as many. }
{\pard  \line \par}
{\b\cf1 Shilpi Bhattacharjee:\b0}
{ So that's true. And it'd be interesting to hear from vendors' perspective as well in terms of, you know, how this impacts them as well.}
{\pard  \line \par}
{I think moving on to, I think another program, and I think it goes into that very vendor partner space is the Aw security competency. Think for partners have been around for ages. I think I know in some of your previous roles, you've kind of been very close to it, helping partners get that security competency.}
{\pard  \line \par}
{They have now kind of relaunched that. And it's got eight new consolidated categories and looking at the categories, none of it is really a surprise. And I think it kind of comes a nice, beautiful circle because we kind of started with the key themes. And now we've gone into this competency partners thing.}
{\pard  \line \par}
{And they're talking about things like application }
{\cf2 [00:43:00]}
{ security, compliance and privacy data protection, identity, and access management. You know, we spoke about that before infrastructure security, 10 detection and response. Pyramid of protection and core security. So a lot of it, you know, is very in line with, you know, the key things that we were talking about.}
{\pard  \line \par}
{So they've done a relaunch of that. Do do those categories. Are they a, are any of them a surprise for you or they all make sense? I know, like I am obviously, you know, we spoke about data protection core security. They're talking about more sort of like a holistic viewpoint, which again makes sense. But any of them sound like a bit of a surprise or is there one you go, oh, they've kind of completely missed this vertical and ignoring it for whatever }
{\pard  \line \par}
{\b\cf3 Ashish Rajan:\b0}
{ reason?}
{\pard  \line \par}
{No, I think it, it definitely makes sense from a adoption perspective. So I think it's good. It's a good thing. So overall, quite positive, quite happy. }
{\pard  \line \par}
{\b\cf1 Shilpi Bhattacharjee:\b0}
{ Amazing. Perfect. So I think that was pretty much, I guess, the overall, I guess, recap of AWS reinforc from our end you know, we spoke about the key themes that were there.}
{\pard  \line \par}
{So just to quickly recap, that was }
{\cf2 [00:44:00]}
{ around IM and, you know your permissions, making sure they're not. Overtly permissive making sure you know, where your sensitive data is. There's a lot of conversation about security being baked and from the beginning of the conversation and just having a holistic view in terms of having different layers of protection for your security within your organization.}
{\pard  \line \par}
{We went through the updates which I wouldn't go through again, cause I'm sure everyone's heard it, but obviously you can, you know, we listen to this and we will drop in, you know, a. On the podcast show notes as well. I did wanna take a moment just to thank everyone. Who's joined us here, but also everyone who made the effort to come and say hello to Ashish I at reinforce that is something that is, you know, we, we really appreciate and you know, it kind of keeps it going.}
{\pard  \line \par}
{So thank you for everyone who did say hello, took a picture with us. And for anyone who we missed you know, hopefully will catch you at the next reinforce or if you're gonna be at blackhead in DEFCON, we'll be there as well. So come and say hello. Any questions from anyone who's in there or any parting thoughts, feel free to do them through, but she, from your end, any last takeaways or comments around }
{\pard  \line \par}
{\b\cf3 Ashish Rajan:\b0}
{ }
{\cf2 [00:45:00]}
{ reinforce?}
{\pard  \line \par}
{No I'm just looking forward to what the whole security champions program means for the cloud security space. If we start converging dev SecOps and cloud security and DevOps start security kind of thing becomes like a one whole holistic thing, which I always thought was gonna be like a future thing at 10, 20 years in the future.}
{\pard  \line \par}
{If it happens sooner because I mean the security guardian was like a two minute thing, right? Towards the end of Steve Schmidtz keynote last year. And this year it was within the first 10 minutes. So clearly there's a lot of impact that's gonna come in from, or at least a push from their side to start having security champions program also include not just application security, but also cloud security.}
{\pard  \line \par}
{So I think I'm looking forward to what this means for the industry and maybe all the experience of devs that we've been car kind of carrying. Actually have a benefit in there and the whole product security center say things as well, but otherwise I won resonate. What you kind of said, I retrain thank you so much, everyone who came in and said hello to us as well.}
{\pard  \line \par}
{It was really awesome to kind of see people }
{\cf2 [00:46:00]}
{ in person, give you guys a hug and give you guys and girls a hug as well. And I think maybe. Maybe might have been the most highlighted fact for us at reinforce be able to hire all the community members in the cloud security space who came in and knew with the podcast.}
{\pard  \line \par}
{And yeah, I think I was really excited by it definitely was my highlight. All these highlights are great, but I think the fact that we got to meet you, that was the best part. So thank you so much again for doing that. }
{\pard  \line \par}
{\b\cf1 Shilpi Bhattacharjee:\b0}
{ Amazing. And I know you like to end your podcast with a fun section. So I'm gonna throw in a bit of a fun section for you.}
{\pard  \line \par}
{What was, and I know a lot of people have said the best part about a Ws reinforce is the people from your perspective, what has been the best part of AWS? Reinforc }
{\pard  \line \par}
{\b\cf3 Ashish Rajan:\b0}
{ I think it was definitely for, for me as well. I was a people, I think the whole con getting to meet so many people who are in the cloud security space, get to hear their day to day experience and conversations around the fact that I've already to think about a session.}
{\pard  \line \par}
{What was the best session? I definitely feel hall con is probably the most value because, and it for people who maybe not }
{\cf2 [00:47:00]}
{ going this year, or maybe are going next year, I would still say, if you go to any conference, whether it's security or develop a conference or whatever, Focus more on meeting people because those are connections that would land in say you learning something new tomorrow or finding a job, or could be many more things.}
{\pard  \line \par}
{Because most of the talks these days, if you were to, I mean, use wasn't the case before, but now most of those talks are gonna be on YouTube, but what would not be on YouTube is the interaction you would have with people over there. So whether it's at the lunch table or a water cooler or the after party, whenever you met to meet people, definit.}
{\pard  \line \par}
{Maximize the opportunity of saying hello to people and building good connections. So that was definitely my, my, my take. }
{\pard  \line \par}
{\b\cf1 Shilpi Bhattacharjee:\b0}
{ Amazing. Thank you so much for sharing that. Thank you for everyone who has joined us today at the live stream. If you weren't at the AWS reinforc, as we did say, most of the talks are there live on YouTube as well.}
{\pard  \line \par}
{And we will share all the links over here. But no, thank you so much for joining us. Thank you for coming and saying hello at reinforc. We did run }
{\cf2 [00:48:00]}
{ AWS month at cloud security podcast. So if you missed any of those episodes, they might tie into a lot of these conversations. So thank you so much for everything and all your support.}
{\pard  \line \par}
{We'll catch you next week.}
}